README.md, before:

# MechaCar_Statistical_Analysis

## Linear Regression to Predict MPG

**Which variables/coefficients provided a non-random amount of variance to the mpg values in the dataset?**

- According to our results, vehicle_length  and ground_clearance (as well as intercept) are statistically unlikely to provide random amounts of variance to the linear model (the p-value for these variables is less than 0.05); These variables have a significant impact on mpg
- In our case the intercept is statistically significant, which means there are other variables and factors that contribute to the variation in mpg that have not been included in our model

![Summary_Statistics.png](Resources/Summary_Statistics.png)


**Is the slope of the linear model considered to be zero? Why or why not?**

- The p-value of our linear regression analysis is  5.35 x 10-11, which is much smaller than our assumed significance level of 0.05%. Therefore, we can state that there is sufficient evidence to reject our null hypothesis, which means that the slope of our linear model is not zero

**Does this linear model predict mpg of MechaCar prototypes effectively? Why or why not?**

- According to the summary output, the r-squared value is 0.7149 which shows that our model is predicting the mpg correctly in 7 out of 10 cases (70%)

- Although the multiple linear regression model is predicting well with our current dataset, the lack of significant variables is evidence of overfitting; Overfitting means that the performance of a model performs well with a current dataset, but fails to generalize and predict future data correctly; therefore, more variables that contribute to the variation in mpg should be collected to increase the accuracy of the model;

## Summary Statistics on Suspension Coils

**The design specifications for the MechaCar suspension coils dictate that the variance of the suspension coils must not exceed 100 pounds per square inch. Does the current manufacturing data meet this design specification for all manufacturing lots in total and each lot individually? Why or why not?**

-

Commit message:

Updated README the analysis of PSI variance

README.md, after:

# MechaCar_Statistical_Analysis

## Linear Regression to Predict MPG

**Which variables/coefficients provided a non-random amount of variance to the mpg values in the dataset?**

- According to our results, vehicle_length  and ground_clearance (as well as intercept) are statistically unlikely to provide random amounts of variance to the linear model (the p-value for these variables is less than 0.05); These variables have a significant impact on mpg
- In our case the intercept is statistically significant, which means there are other variables and factors that contribute to the variation in mpg that have not been included in our model

![Summary_Statistics.png](Resources/Summary_Statistics.png)


**Is the slope of the linear model considered to be zero? Why or why not?**

- The p-value of our linear regression analysis is  5.35 x 10-11, which is much smaller than our assumed significance level of 0.05%. Therefore, we can state that there is sufficient evidence to reject our null hypothesis, which means that the slope of our linear model is not zero

**Does this linear model predict mpg of MechaCar prototypes effectively? Why or why not?**

- According to the summary output, the r-squared value is 0.7149 which shows that our model is predicting the mpg correctly in 7 out of 10 cases (70%)

- Although the multiple linear regression model is predicting well with our current dataset, the lack of significant variables is evidence of overfitting; Overfitting means that the performance of a model performs well with a current dataset, but fails to generalize and predict future data correctly; therefore, more variables that contribute to the variation in mpg should be collected to increase the accuracy of the model;

## Summary Statistics on Suspension Coils

**The design specifications for the MechaCar suspension coils dictate that the variance of the suspension coils must not exceed 100 pounds per square inch. Does the current manufacturing data meet this design specification for all manufacturing lots in total and each lot individually? Why or why not?**

- The current manufacturing data meet the design specification for all manufacturing lots in total (variance is 62 which is below the specified 100)

- When we look at each lot individually, Lot 1 and 2 meet this specifications but Lot 3 does not (variance is over 170 which is over the specified 100 )

![Total_Summary_Statistics.png](Resources/Total_Summary.png)


![Lot_Summary_Statistics.png](Resources/Lot_Summary.png)
